Say goodbye to ESLin and prettier. This

video is a two for one where I get to

show you biome, a rustbased llinter and

formatter, but I also show you a zero

config setup of it called ultrasite. If

you've been holding out on trying biome,

this is absolutely the way to do it.

With a single command, you'll be ready

to go so you can write and generate code

faster with biome doing all the work in

the background. If you need more

convincing than that, Shadien loves and

uses it too. And it even has an MCP

server. So, let's take a look. And while

we're going, I'll point out my top five

reasons for loving Ultraight. Starting

at number one, it is super easy to set

up. You literally only need one command

and that is npx ultrasight in it or in

my case, I've switched it out for bun.

Once we run that, we'll be taken to the

setup wizard. But I'm actually going to

go ahead and skip the rest of the setup

here as first I want to go over the

features so that all of these options in

the setup actually make sense. So, we'll

put reason one on pause for now and jump

straight to reason two. And that's

what's at the core of Ultrasight. Super

fast linting and formatting powered by

Biome. If you haven't heard of Biome

before, it's a blazingly fast all-in-one

tool chain that replaces ESLint,

prettier, and more. And as you may have

already guessed, that's because it is

written in Rust. The benchmarks on the

site have it close to 35 times faster

than prettier. And I believe that using

it personally, I forget it's even there.

It is so quick. I won't go into too much

more detail on biome itself as I trust

you know what to expect from a lint and

formatter. Biome is just the same but

much, much faster. You can see on VS

Code we get all of the usuals like the

call outs here that say we have an

error. It underlines everything. We can

use the quick fixes and we have the

output down here as well. And if we go

ahead and save this, you can see that

it's formatting and linting on save. It

also has all of the usual commands that

you'd expect for checking your code and

also autofixing it. If you're using

ultrasight, you can actually use that

wrapper CLI where we can do npx

ultrasight lint. That's actually just a

wrapper around the biome check command

that makes it a little bit easier to

type out. And we have the same thing as

well. If we do format, this will go

ahead and write the changes that it's

able to make to your codebase for you.

And it's the same as the biomech check-

command. So just a little helper there

from Ultraite. Now something obviously

very important to your Linton formatter

is the rules that you set up in the

configuration file. You can see my biome

config here and this is where you'd

usually have all of your rules, but we

just have one thing which is extends

ultrasight. Ultraight is actually a

highly opinionated rule set and it

includes rules like enforcing TypeScript

strictness following the ESLint

recommended rules where it can in biome

and it has rules for React, Next.js,

Node and accessibility all built in and

then when it comes to formatting, it

includes conventions like two space

indentations and max line width. Now,

this is where I want to specifically

call out that you don't need to be

scared that ultra site is another tool

chain in the JavaScript world. I think

we have enough of those. Just think of

it as a helper for setting up the best

tools and also providing some linting

and formatting defaults straight out of

the box. You could actually delete

ultrasight from the biome config, remove

the package and everything would

continue to work. Even those CLI

commands that I showed you earlier, as I

said, they were just wrappers around

biome commands. Plus, if you don't agree

with some of these rules, since this is

biome, you can literally just come in

here and modify the rules as you see

fit. If you want to find out what all of

Ultraight's rules are exactly, you can

check out that biome configuration on

that GitHub. Or perhaps an easier way to

do it is to read the AI helper files

that you can generate in the setup

process. This is my third reason for

loving Ultraite. It is AI friendly.

During the setup process, you can

actually select which AI assistants you

use, and it will generate the specific

rule files. They're going to help guide

your AI assistants to write better, more

consistent code that follows the best

practices. You can see all of the rules

written out in plain English here. And I

actually have two of these files in my

project. One for Claude and one for

cursor since apparently we can't agree

on a standard for all of these AI

assistant files. Please guys, settle on

a standard for these markdown files. It

is super annoying to have a different

one for every single AI agent. Now, if

you're wondering why it matters that

your AI assistant has access to these

rules when you're probably going to lint

and format afterwards anyways, well,

it's actually a dual approach that

ensures that the AI assistants write

better code from the start, reducing the

need for fixes later and for you having

to go back to the AI to ask it to fix

the linting issues. Something that I've

already encountered a lot of times when

using other tools without these rules.

You actually see here in cursor when I

asked it to add me a new endpoint that

it says make sure it follows the

ultrasite rules and user preferences.

So, I know that that code that's

generated is probably going to need a

lot less linting and formatting and it's

already following the best practices

from Ultrasight. That's all that really

needs to be said about the AI

integration. So, let's jump into reason

number four for why I love Ultrasight

and that is that it plays nicely with

others and gives you built-in

scaffolding to set up hooks like husky,

lint, staged or left hook. In my case, I

used ultrasight to set up husky and it

installed the package for me and set up

the configuration for my pre-commit hook

to just have that single command mpx

ultrasight format. This means for me

that all of my committed code will

follow my standards and the code quality

is enforced. So I don't have to remember

to format my code every single time I

commit. As I said earlier, Ultraight

isn't really in the business of being a

tool itself. Its purpose is a quick

start with existing tools. Obviously for

Husky, this would have been easy for me

to set up myself, but it's just really

nice that there's a tool out there that

handles it all for me quickly in every

single new project that I might start.

And for other tools like linstage and a

left hook, the configuration is a little

more involved and it will also handle

them as well. Onto my fifth reason then

for loving Ultrasight and that is that

it has an MCP server. With this you can

quiz your assistant on the rules that

Ultrasight has. Maybe you want to know

some details about a specific rule and

why they might have put that in place.

But it also means that you can bring

these rules into every single chat that

you have with an AI. Even if the tool

doesn't support extra rules like in a

markdown file means you don't have to go

and copy and paste all of these rules,

paste them in there and ask it something

else. My example of that is claw desktop

where sometimes I ask it to write me

short snippets of code and it's nice

that I know it's going to follow the

ultrasite rules since it's able to pull

them in via the MCP server. That's my

top five reasons for loving Ultraite.

Then if you've made it this far and you

like what you see, let's go back to

reason number one, ease of setup. With

our single command of MPX ultrasight in

it entered, we'll be taken to a setup

wizard where all we need to do is answer

a few questions. The first one is which

package manager do you use? Hopefully

you can get that right and in my case

I'm going to select button. Then we're

asked which editors do you want to

configure. Now, this is a really cool

thing about Ultraite is it will set up

your editor to be using biome instead of

prettier or ESLint for the formatting.

And it will also set it up to format on

save and on paste. And it's just a super

nice thing to have in your project

settings so that you know every time you

open up the project that has ultra site

in it, it will be using biome as your

formatter and that you're not changing

your global settings on VS Code or

anything like that. I personally use VS

Code or cursor. So, I'll go ahead and

select that option. But it's also really

nice to see that they support zed as

well. Next, we ask which editor rules do

you want to enable? When we saw those AI

files earlier, this is where we select

which ones we actually use. In my case,

I use cursor hand clawed code. And we

can hit enter on that. Then, would you

like any of the following? And this is

where we can choose the pre-commit hooks

that we looked at earlier. And in my

case, I was using husky, but they

support left hook and lint staged. And

there we go. That is all there is to

setting up ultra site. It goes ahead,

installs the dependencies for you, and

creates the files. We can actually see

in the getit changes here all of the

files that it's created there for me

using that setup process. We have our

biome configuration. It's added in a few

packages into my package.json like husky

and ultra site here and also biome

itself. It's then gone ahead and added

in those markdown files that I wanted it

to create for my AI assistance. Set up

the pre-commit hook and then change the

settings for VS Code here to make sure

that we're using biome as our formatter.

And then as I said it adds things like

format on save, format and paste and a

few other things. Now, you do want to

make sure that you do have the biome

extension installed as well to make sure

that it can actually work as the

formatterater for your editor of choice.

And there we go. That is Ultrasight. Let

me know what you think in the comments

down below. While you're there, like and

subscribe. And as always, see you in the

next one.


